This is a sophisticated approach to momentum investing. By combining Moving Average Crossovers (Trend Identification) with Anchored VWAP (Institutional Support) and Backtesting (Validation), you are moving from "guessing" to "quantitative" trading.

Below is a Product Requirement Document (PRD) to help you build this stock filtering and backtesting platform.

PRD: Momentum Engine & Backtester
1. Product Overview
A web-based stock screening and backtesting tool that allows users to identify medium-term momentum stocks using custom Moving Average crossovers and automated Anchored VWAP (AVWAP) support levels.

2. Core Features
A. Flexible Momentum Screener
Users can define their own "Trend Signals" by selecting pairs of Moving Averages.

Toggle: Switch between SMA (Simple) and EMA (Exponential).

Custom Inputs: Users can input any two periods (e.g., 10/50, 50/200, 12/26).

The Signal: The engine filters for "Crossovers" that occurred within the last X days.

B. Automated Institutional Support (AVWAP)
The system will automatically identify the most recent "Support Event" to anchor the VWAP.

Logic: The anchor point is automatically set to the lowest price point of the last significant correction (e.g., a 10% drop) or the last Earnings Date.

The Filter: Only show stocks where the current price is above this AVWAP.

Alerting: Visual indicator/notification if the price drops more than 3% below this AVWAP (Signal of institutional exit).

C. The "Confidence Score" (Trend Strength)
A proprietary 0-100 score calculated based on:

Distance from MA: How far the price is above the 200-day SMA (too far = overextended; too close = weak).

Volume Profile: Is the crossover happening on higher-than-average volume?

ADX (Average Directional Index): To measure the mathematical strength of the trend.

D. Integrated Backtester
Before investing, the user clicks "Test Strategy."

Input: Investment duration (e.g., 6 months).

Output: * Win Rate: % of times this crossover led to profit in the last 5 years.

Avg Return: The mean return per trade.

Max Drawdown: The biggest "dip" the strategy took before recovering.

3. User Experience (UX) Additions
To make this a "Pro" level tool, I recommend adding these features:

Sector Heatmap: Momentum often moves in "clusters." If 5 out of 10 filtered stocks are in "Semiconductors," the user should see a heat map showing that the sector has the strongest momentum.

The "Relative Strength" Filter: Only show stocks that are performing better than the benchmark (e.g., S&P 500 or Nifty 50). Momentum is useless if the whole market is just going up faster than your stock.

Visual Chart Overlay: When a user clicks a filtered stock, show a mini-chart with the selected SMA/EMA and the AVWAP line already drawn.

4. Technical Logic for the Developer
Crossover Logic
Python
# Pseudo-code for the filter
if (fast_ma[t] > slow_ma[t]) and (fast_ma[t-1] <= slow_ma[t-1]):
    trigger_buy_signal()
AVWAP Calculation
The AVWAP is calculated using:

AVWAP= 
∑Volume
∑(Price∗Volume)
​
 
Starting from the "Anchor Date" (Recent Swing Low) to the Present.

5. Proposed User Flow
Define Strategy: User selects "EMA," sets 12 and 26.

Set Horizon: User selects "6 Months."

Filter: System shows list of stocks that just had a 12/26 EMA cross and are above their AVWAP.

Validate: User clicks a stock; system shows "This strategy has a 68% success rate for 6-month holds in this stock."

Monitor: User adds stock to "Watchlist" to get an alert if price breaks the AVWAP support.

